actions/metadata-action/README.md, before:

# 🚀 GitHub Metadata Action

This **GitHub Metadata** GitHub Action extracts metadata from the current GitHub context and generates a version string based on templates and tags.

## Features

- Extracts metadata from the current GitHub context.
- Generates a version string based on templates and tags.
- Supports custom templates and configuration files.
- Provides detailed logging for debugging.
- Dynamically adapts to branches, tags, and pull requests.
- Supports additional tags and merging options.
- Includes dry-run mode for testing without making changes.

### Action Result

The primary output of this action is a generated version string. This string is determined by the branch or tag on which the action was executed, and it is created by applying the corresponding template defined in the configuration file. For example, if the action is triggered on the `v1.2.3` tag, the output might follow the `v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}-{{date}}` template, resulting in a string such as `v1.2.3-20250312`. Or triggered on the `release/1.2.3` branch, resulting  `release-1.2.3-20250312`, `feature/some-feature` resulting `feature-some-feature-20250312`.

## 📌 Inputs

| Name                 | Description                                    | Required | Default                                    |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `ref`                | Branch or tag ref.                             | No       | `github.context.ref`                       |
| `configuration-path` | Path to the configuration file.                | No       | `./.github/metadata-action-config.yml`     |
| `short-sha`          | Depth of the short SHA.                        | No       | `7`                                        |
| `default-template`   | Default template for version generation.       | No       | `{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}-{{runNumber}}` |
| `default-tag`        | Default distribution tag.                      | No       | `latest`                                   |
| `extra-tags`         | Additional tags to append to the result.       | No       | `""`                                       |
| `merge-tags`         | Whether to merge `extra-tags` with the result. | No       | `false`                                    |
| `debug`              | Enable debug mode for detailed logging.        | No       | `false`                                    |
| `show-report`        | Whether to display a summary report.           | No       | `true`                                     |
| `dry-run`            | Enable dry-run mode to simulate the action.    | No       | `false`                                    |


---

## 📌 Outputs

| Name        | Description                                                                                                                         | Example         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `result`    | Rendered template with metadata based on template rules (e.g. using `v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}-{{date}}` for the main branch). | v1.2.3-20250313 |
| `ref`       | The current branch or tag reference (e.g. `refs/heads/main`).                                                                       | refs/heads/main |
| `ref-name`  | The name of the current branch or tag.                                                                                              | main            |
| `date`      | Current date in `YYYYMMDD` format.                                                                                                  | 20250313        |
| `time`      | Current time in `HHMMSS` format.                                                                                                    | 235959          |
| `timestamp` | Combined date and time in `YYYYMMDDHHMMSS` format.                                                                                  | 20250313235959  |
| `dist-tag`  | Distribution tag based on the branch or tag (e.g. `latest` for main, `beta` for feature branches).                                  | latest          |
| `major`     | Major version number extracted from semantic versioning.                                                                            | 1               |
| `minor`     | Minor version number extracted from semantic versioning.                                                                            | 2               |
| `patch`     | Patch version number extracted from semantic versioning.                                                                            | 3               |
| `short-sha` | Shortened SHA of the current commit.                                                                                                | abc1234         |


---

## Usage Example

Below is an example of how to use this action in a GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
name: Extract Metadata

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  extract-metadata:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Metadata
        uses: netcracker/qubership-workflow-hub/actions/metadata-action@main
        with:
          configuration-path: './.github/metadata-action-config.yml'
          default-template: '{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}-{{runNumber}}'
          default-tag: 'latest'
          short-sha: '7'
          extra-tags: 'tag1,tag2'
          merge-tags: 'true'
          debug: 'true'
          show-report: 'true'
```

---

## Configuration File

The configuration file (metadata-action-config.yml) should define the templates and distribution tags used by the action. Here is an example configuration:

```yaml
branches-template:
  - main: "v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}-{{date}}"
  - "feature/*": "feature-{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}.{{dist-tag}}"
  - "release/*": "release-{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}.{{dist-tag}}"
  - tag: "v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}"

distribution-tag:
  - main: "latest"
  - "release/*": "next"
  - "feature/*": "beta"
  - tag: "stable"

default-template: "{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}-{{runNumber}}"
default-tag: "latest"
```

In this example:

- **Main branch template:** generates a version string in the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-DATE` (e.g. `v1.2.3-20250313`).
- **Feature/* branch template:** generates a version string in the format `feature-BRANCH_NAME-TIMESTAMP.DIST-TAG` (e.g. `feature-my-feature.20250313235959.beta`).
- **Release/* branch template:** generates a version string in the format `release-BRANCH_NAME-TIMESTAMP.DIST-TAG` (e.g. `release-v1.2.3-20250313235959.next`).
- **Tag template:** generates a version string in the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` (e.g. `v1.2.3`).

## Additional Information

### GitHub Context Availability

The GitHub context is available, allowing you to access properties such as the current branch, tag, and other metadata. This context can be used within the action to dynamically generate version strings and tailor behavior based on the repository state.
More information [here](https://docs.github.com/ru/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/accessing-contextual-information-about-workflow-runs).


### Semantic Version Parsing Contract

The variables `major`, `minor`, and `patch` are parsed only from a branch or tag that follows the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` (for example, `v1.0.1`). This format is a strict contract; only tags or branch names matching this pattern will be correctly parsed to extract the semantic version components.

### Configuration File Schema

The configuration file for this action must adhere to the schema defined [here](https://github.com/netcracker/qubership-workflow-hub/blob/main/actions/metadata-action/config.schema.json). This ensures that all templates, distribution tags, and other configuration options follow the required structure for correct parsing and execution.

```json
{
    "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
    "title": "Metadata configuration file schema",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "branches-template": {
            "type": "array",
            "minItems": 1,
            "items": {
                "type": "object",
                "minProperties": 1,
                "maxProperties": 1,
                "patternProperties": {
                    "^[-a-zA-Z0-9_*]+$": {
                        "type": "string"
                    }
                },
                "additionalProperties": false
            }
        },
        "distribution-tag": {
            "type": "array",
            "minItems": 1,
            "items": {
                "type": "object",
                "minProperties": 1,
                "maxProperties": 1,
                "patternProperties": {
                    "^[-a-zA-Z0-9_*]+$": {
                        "type": "string"
                    }
                },
                "additionalProperties": false
            }
        },
        "default-template": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "default-tag": {
            "type": "string"
        }
    },
    "additionalProperties": false
}
```

Commit message:

feat: add runNumber output to metadata action for workflow tracking

actions/metadata-action/README.md, after:

# 🚀 GitHub Metadata Action

This **GitHub Metadata** GitHub Action extracts metadata from the current GitHub context and generates a version string based on templates and tags.

## Features

- Extracts metadata from the current GitHub context.
- Generates a version string based on templates and tags.
- Supports custom templates and configuration files.
- Provides detailed logging for debugging.
- Dynamically adapts to branches, tags, and pull requests.
- Supports additional tags and merging options.
- Includes dry-run mode for testing without making changes.

### Action Result

The primary output of this action is a generated version string. This string is determined by the branch or tag on which the action was executed, and it is created by applying the corresponding template defined in the configuration file. For example, if the action is triggered on the `v1.2.3` tag, the output might follow the `v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}-{{date}}` template, resulting in a string such as `v1.2.3-20250312`. Or triggered on the `release/1.2.3` branch, resulting in `release-1.2.3-20250313235959`, `feature/some-feature` resulting in `feature-some-feature-20250313235959`.

## 📌 Inputs

| Name                 | Description                                    | Required | Default                                    |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `ref`                | Branch or tag ref.                             | No       | `github.context.ref`                       |
| `configuration-path` | Path to the configuration file.                | No       | `./.github/metadata-action-config.yml`     |
| `short-sha`          | Depth of the short SHA.                        | No       | `7`                                        |
| `default-template`   | Default template for version generation.       | No       | `{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}-{{runNumber}}` |
| `default-tag`        | Default distribution tag.                      | No       | `latest`                                   |
| `extra-tags`         | Additional tags to append to the result.       | No       | `""`                                       |
| `merge-tags`         | Whether to merge `extra-tags` with the result. | No       | `true`                                     |
| `debug`              | Enable debug mode for detailed logging.        | No       | `false`                                    |
| `show-report`        | Whether to display a summary report.           | No       | `true`                                     |
| `dry-run`            | Enable dry-run mode to simulate the action.    | No       | `false`                                    |
| `replace-symbol`     | Symbol to replace '/' in branch or tag names.  | No       | `-`                                        |


---

## 📌 Outputs

| Name        | Description                                                                                                                         | Example         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `result`    | Rendered template with metadata based on template rules (e.g. using `v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}-{{date}}` for the main branch). | v1.2.3-20250313 |
| `ref`       | The current branch or tag reference (e.g. `refs/heads/main`).                                                                       | refs/heads/main |
| `ref-name`  | The name of the current branch or tag.                                                                                              | main            |
| `date`      | Current date in `YYYYMMDD` format.                                                                                                  | 20250313        |
| `time`      | Current time in `HHMMSS` format.                                                                                                    | 235959          |
| `timestamp` | Combined date and time in `YYYYMMDDHHMMSS` format.                                                                                  | 20250313235959  |
| `dist-tag`  | Distribution tag based on the branch or tag (e.g. `latest` for main, `beta` for feature branches).                                  | latest          |
| `major`     | Major version number extracted from semantic versioning.                                                                            | 1               |
| `minor`     | Minor version number extracted from semantic versioning.                                                                            | 2               |
| `patch`     | Patch version number extracted from semantic versioning.                                                                            | 3               |
| `short-sha` | Shortened SHA of the current commit.                                                                                                | abc1234         |
| `runNumber` | The unique number for each run of a particular workflow in a repository.                                                           | 123             |
| `commit`    | The full SHA of the current commit.                                                                                                 | abc123456789    |
| `ref-type`  | The type of the reference (e.g., branch or tag).                                                                                    | branch          |


---

## Usage Example

Below is an example of how to use this action in a GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
name: Extract Metadata

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  extract-metadata:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Metadata
        uses: netcracker/qubership-workflow-hub/actions/metadata-action@main
        with:
          configuration-path: './.github/metadata-action-config.yml'
          default-template: '{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}-{{runNumber}}'
          default-tag: 'latest'
          short-sha: '7'
          extra-tags: 'tag1,tag2'
          merge-tags: 'true'
          debug: 'true'
          show-report: 'true'
          replace-symbol: '_'  # Example: Replaces '/' in branch names like 'feature/my-branch' with 'feature_my-branch'
```

---

## Configuration File

The configuration file (metadata-action-config.yml) should define the templates and distribution tags used by the action. Here is an example configuration:

```yaml
branches-template:
  - main: "v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}-{{date}}"
  - "feature/*": "feature-{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}.{{dist-tag}}"
  - "release/*": "release-{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}.{{dist-tag}}"
  - tag: "v{{major}}.{{minor}}.{{patch}}"

distribution-tag:
  - main: "latest"
  - "release/*": "next"
  - "feature/*": "beta"
  - tag: "stable"

default-template: "{{ref-name}}-{{timestamp}}-{{runNumber}}"
default-tag: "latest"
```

In this example:

- **Main branch template:** generates a version string in the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-DATE` (e.g. `v1.2.3-20250313`).
- **Feature/* branch template:** generates a version string in the format `feature-BRANCH_NAME-TIMESTAMP.DIST-TAG` (e.g. `feature-my-feature.20250313235959.beta`).
- **Release/* branch template:** generates a version string in the format `release-BRANCH_NAME-TIMESTAMP.DIST-TAG` (e.g. `release-v1.2.3-20250313235959.next`).
- **Tag template:** generates a version string in the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` (e.g. `v1.2.3`).

## Additional Information

### GitHub Context Availability

The GitHub context is available, allowing you to access properties such as the current branch, tag, and other metadata. This context can be used within the action to dynamically generate version strings and tailor behavior based on the repository state.
More information [here](https://docs.github.com/ru/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/accessing-contextual-information-about-workflow-runs).


### Semantic Version Parsing Contract

The variables `major`, `minor`, and `patch` are parsed only from a branch or tag that follows the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` (for example, `v1.0.1`). This format is a strict contract; only tags or branch names matching this pattern will be correctly parsed to extract the semantic version components.

### Configuration File Schema

The configuration file for this action must adhere to the schema defined [here](https://github.com/netcracker/qubership-workflow-hub/blob/main/actions/metadata-action/config.schema.json). This ensures that all templates, distribution tags, and other configuration options follow the required structure for correct parsing and execution.

```json
{
    "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
    "title": "Metadata configuration file schema",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "branches-template": {
            "type": "array",
            "minItems": 1,
            "items": {
                "type": "object",
                "minProperties": 1,
                "maxProperties": 1,
                "patternProperties": {
                    "^[-a-zA-Z0-9_*]+$": {
                        "type": "string"
                    }
                },
                "additionalProperties": false
            }
        },
        "distribution-tag": {
            "type": "array",
            "minItems": 1,
            "items": {
                "type": "object",
                "minProperties": 1,
                "maxProperties": 1,
                "patternProperties": {
                    "^[-a-zA-Z0-9_*]+$": {
                        "type": "string"
                    }
                },
                "additionalProperties": false
            }
        },
        "default-template": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "default-tag": {
            "type": "string"
        }
    },
    "additionalProperties": false
}
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Template not rendering correctly:** Ensure your configuration file matches the schema and that variables like `{{major}}` are used only on semantic version refs (e.g., `v1.2.3`).
- **Missing outputs:** Check if the action ran successfully; use `debug: true` for logs.
- **Configuration errors:** Validate your YAML against the schema at [config.schema.json](https://github.com/netcracker/qubership-workflow-hub/blob/main/actions/metadata-action/config.schema.json).
- **Branch/tag name issues:** Use `replace-symbol` to customize how '/' is replaced in names (default is `-`).
